by allowing his body temperature to
fluctuate the hems buck maximizes energy
utilization with no water around and
exposed to extremely high temperatures
he can raise his body temperature to 45
degrees Celsius most animals died when
their body temperature reaches 42
degrees Celsius by increasing their body
heat they can retain high volumes of
water because they don't sweat this
enables them to stay alive by cooling
off the blood just before it enters the
brain through a fine network of blood
vessels around the nasal sinuses gemsbok
occur in small herds of 5 to 20 but
formed temporary groups of around 150
for short periods at times these
antelope have no specific mating seasons
but the highest number of calves are
dropped in the late winter pennsburg are
territorial by spreading out their
breeding throughout the year they ensure
that at least some will survive they
also in turn provide food for the large
predators throughout the year he said
that when the field mice and rats make
their appearance by the hundreds and
migrate regain we'll start research for
new green pastures
at around 120 grams the whisking rets is
the fourth largest rodent in the
Kalahari it feeds on grass seeds and
shoots and small shrubs especially the
drury it lives under the Cape Cobra is
the largest most conspicuous and
poisonous snake in the riverbeds and
makes full use of the vast rodent
population our mole snakes and a variety
of sand snakes make up the rest of the
snake population in and around the
riverbed